source/packages/accounts-ui.md, before:

---
title: accounts-ui
order: 21
description: Documentation of Meteor's `accounts-ui` package.
---

A turn-key user interface for Meteor Accounts.

To add Accounts and a set of login controls to an application, add the
`accounts-ui` package and at least one login provider package:
`accounts-password`, `accounts-facebook`, `accounts-github`,
`accounts-google`, `accounts-twitter`, or `accounts-weibo`.

Then simply add the `{{> loginButtons}}` helper to an HTML file. This
will place a login widget on the page. If there is only one provider configured
and it is an external service, this will add a login/logout button. If you use
`accounts-password` or use multiple external login services, this will add
a "Sign in" link which opens a dropdown menu with login options. If you plan to
position the login dropdown in the right edge of the screen, use
`{{> loginButtons align="right"}}` in order to get the dropdown to lay
itself out without expanding off the edge of the screen.

To configure the behavior of `{{> loginButtons}}`, use
[`Accounts.ui.config`](#accounts_ui_config).

`accounts-ui` also includes modal popup dialogs to handle links from
[`sendResetPasswordEmail`](#accounts_sendresetpasswordemail), [`sendVerificationEmail`](#accounts_sendverificationemail),
and [`sendEnrollmentEmail`](#accounts_sendenrollmentemail). These
do not have to be manually placed in HTML: they are automatically activated
when the URLs are loaded.

If you want to control the look and feel of your accounts system a little more, we recommend reading the [useraccounts](http://guide.meteor.com/accounts.html#useraccounts) section of the Meteor Guide.

Commit message:

Added "raw" wrapper around tags from #21
TIL that I need to `{% raw %}` and `{% endraw %}` any Blaze template includes because of the `>`.  Fixes breaking change in #21 that prevents hexo server from starting (even though I thought I tried it with `hexo server` previously).

source/packages/accounts-ui.md, after:

---
title: accounts-ui
order: 21
description: Documentation of Meteor's `accounts-ui` package.
---

A turn-key user interface for Meteor Accounts.

To add Accounts and a set of login controls to an application, add the
`accounts-ui` package and at least one login provider package:
`accounts-password`, `accounts-facebook`, `accounts-github`,
`accounts-google`, `accounts-twitter`, or `accounts-weibo`.

Then simply add the `{% raw %}{{> loginButtons}}{% endraw %}` helper to an HTML file. This
will place a login widget on the page. If there is only one provider configured
and it is an external service, this will add a login/logout button. If you use
`accounts-password` or use multiple external login services, this will add
a "Sign in" link which opens a dropdown menu with login options. If you plan to
position the login dropdown in the right edge of the screen, use
`{% raw %}{{> loginButtons align="right"}}{% endraw %}` in order to get the dropdown to lay
itself out without expanding off the edge of the screen.

To configure the behavior of `{% raw %}{{> loginButtons}}{% endraw %}`, use
[`Accounts.ui.config`](#accounts_ui_config).

`accounts-ui` also includes modal popup dialogs to handle links from
[`sendResetPasswordEmail`](#accounts_sendresetpasswordemail), [`sendVerificationEmail`](#accounts_sendverificationemail),
and [`sendEnrollmentEmail`](#accounts_sendenrollmentemail). These
do not have to be manually placed in HTML: they are automatically activated
when the URLs are loaded.

If you want to control the look and feel of your accounts system a little more, we recommend reading the [useraccounts](http://guide.meteor.com/accounts.html#useraccounts) section of the Meteor Guide.
