source/api/http.md, before:

---
title: HTTP
description: Documentation of Meteor's HTTP API.
---

`HTTP` provides an HTTP request API on the client and server.  To use
these functions, add the HTTP package to your project by running in your
terminal:

```bash
meteor add http
```

{% apibox "HTTP.call" %}

This function initiates an HTTP request to a remote server.

On the server, this function can be run either synchronously or
asynchronously.  If the callback is omitted, it runs synchronously
and the results are returned once the request completes successfully.
If the request was not successful, an error is thrown.
This is
useful when making server-to-server HTTP API calls from within Meteor
methods, as the method can succeed or fail based on the results of the
synchronous HTTP call.  In this case, consider using
[`this.unblock()`](#method_unblock) to allow other methods on the same
connection to run in
the mean time.  On the client, this function must be used
asynchronously by passing a callback.

Both HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.  The `url` argument must be
an absolute URL including protocol and host name on the server, but may be
relative to the current host on the client.  The `query` option
replaces the query string of `url`.  Parameters specified in `params`
that are put in the URL are appended to any query string.
For example, with a `url` of `"/path?query"` and
`params` of `{foo:"bar"}`, the final URL will be `"/path?query&foo=bar"`.

The `params` are put in the URL or the request body, depending on the
type of request.  In the case of request with no bodies, like GET and
HEAD, the parameters will always go in the URL.  For a POST or other
type of request, the parameters will be encoded into the body with a
standard `x-www-form-urlencoded` content type, unless the `content`
or `data` option is used to specify a body, in which case the
parameters will be appended to the URL instead.

When run in asynchronous mode, the callback receives two arguments,
`error` and `result`.  The
`error` argument will contain an Error if the request fails in any
way, including a network error, time-out, or an HTTP status code in
the 400 or 500 range.  In case of a 4xx/5xx HTTP status code, the
`response` property on `error` matches the contents of the result
object.  When run in synchronous mode, either `result` is returned
from the function, or `error` is thrown.

Contents of the result object:

<dl class="objdesc">

<dt><span class="name">statusCode</span>
  <span class="type">Number</span></dt>
<dd>Numeric HTTP result status code, or <code>null</code> on error.</dd>

<dt><span class="name">content</span>
  <span class="type">String</span></dt>
<dd>The body of the HTTP response as a string.</dd>

<dt><span class="name">data</span>
  <span class="type">Object or <code>null</code></span></dt>
<dd>If the response headers indicate JSON content, this contains the body of the document parsed as a JSON object.</dd>

<dt><span class="name">headers</span>
  <span class="type">Object</span></dt>
<dd>A dictionary of HTTP headers from the response.</dd>

</dl>

Example server method:

```js
Meteor.methods({checkTwitter: function (userId) {
  check(userId, String);
  this.unblock();
  try {
    var result = HTTP.call("GET", "http://api.twitter.com/xyz",
                           {params: {user: userId}});
    return true;
  } catch (e) {
    // Got a network error, time-out or HTTP error in the 400 or 500 range.
    return false;
  }
}});
```

Example asynchronous HTTP call:

```js
HTTP.call("POST", "http://api.twitter.com/xyz",
          {data: {some: "json", stuff: 1}},
          function (error, result) {
            if (!error) {
              Session.set("twizzled", true);
            }
          });
```

{% apibox "HTTP.get" %}
{% apibox "HTTP.post" %}
{% apibox "HTTP.put" %}
{% apibox "HTTP.del" %}

Commit message:

Include Paragraph about OPTIONS-Call on client
As on posted on `https://forums.meteor.com/t/solved-meteor-http-client-sided-post-produces-options-call/30221/6` I improve the docs with warning about the client sided option-call if you use the same code as on the server and have a really basic rest-api where you need to implement the options-call yourself.

e.g. simplehttpserver in python has a really strange way of telling you that there is a problem as it tells you that the OPTIONS-Method is not defined. Because POST, GET, etc is also called method this mislead me into thinking that meteor does strange things here.

source/api/http.md, after:

---
title: HTTP
description: Documentation of Meteor's HTTP API.
---

`HTTP` provides an HTTP request API on the client and server.  To use
these functions, add the HTTP package to your project by running in your
terminal:

```bash
meteor add http
```

{% apibox "HTTP.call" %}

This function initiates an HTTP request to a remote server.

On the server, this function can be run either synchronously or
asynchronously.  If the callback is omitted, it runs synchronously
and the results are returned once the request completes successfully.
If the request was not successful, an error is thrown.
This is
useful when making server-to-server HTTP API calls from within Meteor
methods, as the method can succeed or fail based on the results of the
synchronous HTTP call.  In this case, consider using
[`this.unblock()`](#method_unblock) to allow other methods on the same
connection to run in
the mean time.  On the client, this function must be used
asynchronously by passing a callback.

If you use the same code on the server and the client, be aware that on the client your browser might issue an `OPTION`-call before your `POST`, `GET`, etc. call as per standard protocol to figure out Cross Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) settings.

Both HTTP and HTTPS protocols are supported.  The `url` argument must be
an absolute URL including protocol and host name on the server, but may be
relative to the current host on the client.  The `query` option
replaces the query string of `url`.  Parameters specified in `params`
that are put in the URL are appended to any query string.
For example, with a `url` of `"/path?query"` and
`params` of `{foo:"bar"}`, the final URL will be `"/path?query&foo=bar"`.

The `params` are put in the URL or the request body, depending on the
type of request.  In the case of request with no bodies, like GET and
HEAD, the parameters will always go in the URL.  For a POST or other
type of request, the parameters will be encoded into the body with a
standard `x-www-form-urlencoded` content type, unless the `content`
or `data` option is used to specify a body, in which case the
parameters will be appended to the URL instead.

When run in asynchronous mode, the callback receives two arguments,
`error` and `result`.  The
`error` argument will contain an Error if the request fails in any
way, including a network error, time-out, or an HTTP status code in
the 400 or 500 range.  In case of a 4xx/5xx HTTP status code, the
`response` property on `error` matches the contents of the result
object.  When run in synchronous mode, either `result` is returned
from the function, or `error` is thrown.

Contents of the result object:

<dl class="objdesc">

<dt><span class="name">statusCode</span>
  <span class="type">Number</span></dt>
<dd>Numeric HTTP result status code, or <code>null</code> on error.</dd>

<dt><span class="name">content</span>
  <span class="type">String</span></dt>
<dd>The body of the HTTP response as a string.</dd>

<dt><span class="name">data</span>
  <span class="type">Object or <code>null</code></span></dt>
<dd>If the response headers indicate JSON content, this contains the body of the document parsed as a JSON object.</dd>

<dt><span class="name">headers</span>
  <span class="type">Object</span></dt>
<dd>A dictionary of HTTP headers from the response.</dd>

</dl>

Example server method:

```js
Meteor.methods({checkTwitter: function (userId) {
  check(userId, String);
  this.unblock();
  try {
    var result = HTTP.call("GET", "http://api.twitter.com/xyz",
                           {params: {user: userId}});
    return true;
  } catch (e) {
    // Got a network error, time-out or HTTP error in the 400 or 500 range.
    return false;
  }
}});
```

Example asynchronous HTTP call:

```js
HTTP.call("POST", "http://api.twitter.com/xyz",
          {data: {some: "json", stuff: 1}},
          function (error, result) {
            if (!error) {
              Session.set("twizzled", true);
            }
          });
```

{% apibox "HTTP.get" %}
{% apibox "HTTP.post" %}
{% apibox "HTTP.put" %}
{% apibox "HTTP.del" %}
